Harvard professor Shoshana Zuboff
is often called the Karl Marx of our time.
Her monumental book The Age of Surveillance Capitalism
exhibited the dubious mechanisms of our digital economy.
According to Zuboff, our personal and private experiences,
been hijacked by Silicon Valley
and used as the raw materials
into extremely valuable digital products.
The term "surveillance capitalism" is not an arbitrary term.
Why "monitoring"?
Because these are necessarily operations made in a way that
so they are undetectable, incomprehensible and hidden in rhetoric,
for the purpose of diverting our attention
creating obscurity
and simply cheat us all
"Connecting them ..." "Don't be evil"
"Connecting them ..." "Humanity ..."
"Don't be evil"
"Humanity ..." "Humanity ..." "It's about giving power to the individual."
"The future is private."
What is really happening with your Facebook photos?
Why are there hidden microphones in Google Nest?
And Pokemon Go is exhibited as child lockers?
In this section of Backlight, Shoshana Zuboff reveals,
how Silicon Valley leads us behind the light.
In the most skillful way.
The big data robbery
How is all this put into play,
when I buy a pair of shoes on the internet?
Some people say to me:
"But Professor Zuboff, I love targeted advertising!"
"They are so helpful!"
or "I enjoy personalized services!".
Sometimes people say:
"I have nothing to hide, so I don't care what they collect!"
Each of these statements is a deep misunderstanding,
of what is actually going on.
We believe that the only personal information they hold about us,
is what we have given to them.
And we think we have control over what we give them.
And that's why we think our calculations or trade-offs are something
that we somehow manage - that we understand.
What really happens is,
that we provide them with personal information,
but the information we provide ourselves,
is the least important part
of the information collected about us.
Thanks to their navigation and search engine,
Google at all times where we are
and what we think.
Facebook knows our hobbies, preferences and friends,
because they collect a lot of information from the digital tracks,
we inadvertently leave us alone.
Spelling errors in your keywords.
Which color buttons you prefer.
How fast you type. How fast you drive a car.
Residual data.
Back when it started,
back in 2000, 2001, 2002,
at that time this information was considered "extra data".
They were considered waste products.
And this information was called "digital exhaust" or "data exhaust".
Over time, there was an understanding that these so-called waste products
contained a wealth of predictive information.
The purpose of retaining information about searches is quality considerations.
For example, Google's spelling correction,
our "Did you mean ..." feature, which shows up on Google,
is built using long periods of data on,
when someone searches for something,
and immediately make a corrected search,
and we learn from those corrections
And it takes more than 30 days of data,
to build a world-class spell correction, like the one we have.
The companies usually say,
we collect data so we can improve our services.
And that is true. They collect data.
And some of it is used to improve services.
But an even bigger part is analyzed,
to train what they call models -
patterns of human behavior.
So once I have extensive training models,
I can see how people with these characteristics typically behave over time.
And it allows me to put your data into that "arc"
and predict how you are likely to act,
not only now, but at a later date.
This is what I call behavioral excess.
These streams of data are rich in predictive data.
Why "surplus"?
Because from the beginning, they (the data streams) contained more data,
than was necessary to improve products and services.
Just as soon as you have a behavior surplus
- comprehensive information on hundreds of millions of people's behavior -
you can start predicting specific group preferences.
Think of popular shoes for male leaders.
Or the preferred restaurants for a group of people with the same zip code.
Maybe they predict where I eat tonight?
How can I imagine what they predict about me?
At the simplest level,
they can predict the type of food you want right now.
And then
sell that prediction - auction it off - to their business customers in the hospitality industry,
which then sends you a quick ad:
"We know you're in the mood for a delicious pasta dish tonight."
"We can invite you to a restaurant and here is a discount coupon."
Some say it is unlikely to achieve anything with targeted advertising
because people have their own free will, and don't buy a pair of shoes just because they have an advertisement in front of them.
I think one of the misconceptions
which is important for us to move away from,
is that surveillance capitalism only manifests itself in our lives when we are online.
Or that it is somehow just limiting itself
online targeted marketing.
It's easy for us to say,
that things don't affect me.
The fact is,
it is implemented in a layer that is not available to us.
We have no idea what algorithms today can predict about us.
Or about what behavior information is used for it.
Something as simple as buying a particular kind of shampoo,
may disclose essential information about us.
For example, the New York Times described a case,
where a supermarket chain knew a girl had become pregnant before she even did
- or was ready to share the news.
The market algorithms discovered that the girl switched from perfumed shampoo to more neutral scented products.
Because the sense of smell sharpens when you become pregnant,
the market algorithm assumed that the girl had to be pregnant.
Her father did not know.
Until he was sent repeated offers
on newborn products.
Thanks to the analysis of trillions of terabytes of behavioral data,
which we inadvertently leave around the digital world,
Big Tech sometimes knows us better than we know ourselves.
They can predict things like our personality,
our feelings,
our sexual preferences,
our political stand.
A whole host of things we never intended to disclose.
The predictive value that Big Tech can extract from residual data is huge.
The family portraits that we post on our Facebook pages,
contains residual data,
from which large amounts of valuable knowledge can be extracted.
Let's say I put the photo album with pictures of my kids' birthday parties online - on the Facebook pages.
What we have trouble understanding is that the most important thing is not the pictures as such.
These are the predictive signals,
which these companies can steal from the pictures.
It's not just my face,
but it allows them to analyze the hundreds of muscles in my face.
To upload innocent snapshots on your Facebook page,
can have unforeseen consequences.
For example, our faces are used to train algorithms
in recognizing facial features.
And we have no idea whatsoever,
about what the face recognition software is used for.
These data streams with powerful predictive signals,
are born into the new factories
- the calculation factories -
analyzed for human behavior predictions,
and these predictions are then sold.
Who are they being sold to? They will not be sold to us.
We are not the customers.
They are sold to companies - to business customers -
who seek to maximize our value for their business, whatever it is.
They use information from our faces,
as we have given - billions upon billions of photos to Facebook,
enabling them to train face recognition models.
The models are then sold for military operations,
certain of them in China.
And the Chinese operations do many things,
including the imprisonment of the Uighurs,
a subgroup of the Uighur Muslim population in China,
in what is rightly considered an open prison,
where they don't actually have to put people behind bars,
because they can constantly follow people with face recognition.
The knowledge gained through our residual data,
can be sold to anyone.
For example, face recognition software,
may be sold to a Chinese company,
supporting the suppression of the Uighurs in China.
Or that helps track down advocates for democracy in Hong Kong.
That way, our precious family portraits can be used by Facebook,
to facilitate authoritarian regimes.
And we have a guarantee of our privacy.
Because it's not our faces that are being sold,
it is the residual data that is scraped by them.
It is very difficult to understand this,
for a very good reason.
It's not because we're stupid,
it is because these processes have been masked.
They operate in secret.
They are made in a way that they are incomprehensible,
undetectable, to create ignorance,
among the large group of us,
which they call "users".
Our ignorance is their bliss.
These are some things,
which has come to the public's knowledge.
Facebook's massive scam experiments.
This is where Facebook experimented with subliminal signals
planted on the Facebook pages,
that could actually affect
behavior and emotions offline - in the real world.
To find out if they could make people feel more happy or sad
using subliminal signals,
with language manipulations, word manipulations, etc.
When those who performed the experiments described their work
in the prestigious scientific journals that published their findings,
highlighted the 2 key findings.
Number 1:
We know now,
that we can manipulate
subliminal signals in an online context,
thus changing behavior or emotions in the real world.
We know that we can succeed in doing this.
Number 2:
We can exercise this power
- these methods -
and at the same time bypassing users' consciousness.
A large group of Pokemon Go players agree to a meeting in Leeuwarden.
They go through the city together to catch as many Pokemon as possible.
In the Netherlands alone there are 1.3 million. players
A very interesting experiment occurs
in the form of an AR game named Pokemon Go.
In the game, you go around the real world.
Pokémon are hiding in different places and you need to find them to pick them up.
What are we not seeing,
when Pokemon Go is introduced in our country?
It's important to understand that Pokemon Go is an Augmented Reality game,
that was incubated and developed at Google for many years.
Google is the first pioneer in surveillance capitalism.
The inventors of surveillance capitalism.
Pokemon Go was invented at Google, incubated for many years, developed there,
under the direction of a man named John Hanke,
and John Hanke invented an operation called "Keyhole",
that the CIA invested in, and later acquired by Google,
called Google Earth.
Was Google Earth a CIA start-up in the beginning?
Yes. Google Earth was called Keyhole and it was a startup that the CIA invested in.
It's important to understand that Pokemon Go wasn't just a fun little game,
just sent out into the world
by a toy company.
When they decided to release Pokemon Go to the public,
they would not publish it as a Google game.
They sent it to the market like Niantic Labs that no one had heard of.
It was just a cool start-up with a cool game.
We now have this Google AR game,
and it turns out,
that the "big game" that sits at the top of the "small game",
as the children play,
is a game that accurately emulates the logic of surveillance capitalism.
In surveillance capitalism, in the original version online,
we predict the click-through rate,
and we sell the click-through rate to the advertiser,
who pay to get clicks on their website.
Clicking-through all the way through to the Buy button.
That's what they hope for.
In the real world,
paid business customers Niantic Labs
- The Pokemon Go company -
Niantic Labs paid for it,
which in the real world equals click-through,
which is called "foot-fall"
To actually get real bodies,
with their real feet,
into real business,
so that their feet say, "trip, trap, trip, trap"
across the store
or across the restaurant
or across the bar,
to buy something.
So I could ask Niantic Labs
about getting a Pokemon in my ice cream shop, for example.
All these companies buy what is called
- here's the term -
"tricky modules"
Modules there, just like a gemstone, lure people to you.
Not that they can come and be happy,
but then they come and spend money in your store or restaurant.
Starbucks, McDonalds - they all made money.
Everyone made money.
Niantic Labs made money and all the companies made money.
And those who played the game,
had no idea.
They used rewards and penalties in the game
to rummage through the city,
to the places that paid for your body.
It was this that was the Pokemon Go game.
This was the real game.
A Game of Shadows.
To get you somewhere,
where we have predicted that you will be.
Our predictions are increasing in value.
If I can guarantee you will be there,
my predictions are worth much more.
Economics of action is the way I guarantee it.
And Pokemon Go was a large-scale experiment
- an experiment on a global scale -
with economics of action,
where with remote control automated behavior
- manufactured behavior -
to meet the commercial goals of others,
all in while having fun.
That is the intention,
that you have the feeling of being served.
that you become saturated with convenience,
so you're not aware,
so you don't complain,
and this whole shadowing operation remains hidden
because you are not asking questions.
Because you are busy busy being entertained.
It is no longer enough,
to have what you do online,
your browsing, your messages, your emails.
We want to know about your walk in the park.
We want to know what you are doing in your car.
We want to know what you are doing in your home.
"What if home security was different?"
"What if it looked different?"
After all, it's a beautiful system.
Some kind of engineering engineer discovered,
that the Nest security system
has a microphone built in.
That microphone does not appear in any floor plan.
When you buy the security system,
comes with a piece of paper that you fold out,
who has a floor plan or you go online and find a floor plan,
it does not display a microphone.
It does not mention a microphone.
Why should you have a microphone there?
Remember what is our business?
Our business depends on extraction
of behavioral excess.
Scale, scope and action.
Are there better devices for extracting behavioral profits?
Especially new forms: voices, conversations, what you see on TV,
the music you listen to,
who goes in and out of your home,
if you yell at each other over breakfast.
All this has tremendous predictive value.
Voices are what everyone is looking for. Like they are looking for faces.
So now it's public knowledge.
There's a "Hey Google, what happens to put a microphone in your security system?"
What does Google say? "Oops, sorry!"
"Oh, we had no idea there was a microphone!"
"Sorry, sorry. Someone put a microphone in, but we never intended to use it for anything."
It's their business.
To hide, to divert attention,
to produce ignorance
with mechanisms and methods that are undetectable and incomprehensible.
And if they confront you with it, then deny it.
Deny it as long as possible until they get used to it.
If there is an element of it that you do not get used to, make an adjustment.
"All right, we make sure all the microphones are ..."
"off so they can't be used."
And then "just wait .."
when everyone is looking the other way
is there a microphone in something else,
there will be a microphone in the home device or in the music player,
or whatever it may be. It will come again.
"What if functionality was measured by
that you never had to think about it? "
There are two lawyers at the University of London,
which has analyzed the privacy policy
- how we consent -
to these devices.
They analyzed these documents for a single Nest Thermostat.
What happens is,
that the thermostat collects data,
they send data to third parties,
and the third parties pass on data to third parties, ad infinitum.
An endless loop where your data goes wherever you go.
No single company takes responsibility,
for the third party they send your data to,
uses your data to.
Nest says, "If you don't want us to take your data,
and you don't want us to pass them on to third parties, that's fine.
But be aware that without your data, we will no longer support the functionality of your thermostat. "
"We will no longer update your software."
"Be aware that your smoke alarm may no longer work."
"Be aware that your water pipes may freeze."
So now the device's functionality is being held hostage,
against the acceptance of the Privacy Agreement.
And they say, "By the way, even if you accept, and we maintain the functionality,
we send data to these third parties,
and they use them as they see fit,
without responsibility to us.
The two forensic scientists conduct an analysis of a Nest thermostat,
and their conclusion is,
that based on the whole arrangement,
any self-respecting consumer,
anyone who is just a little vigilant about their spending habits,
should judge at least 1000 privacy agreements,
to install a single
Nest thermostat in their home.
"you have 3 minutes to go out ..."
"What if you got more time?"
"And what you really need from security systems ..."
"... a sense of security."
They are starting to extract data on a large scale.
First, it's all you do online.
And before long, they need more data.
But they also discover,
that they need many varieties of data.
It is not just about quantity but about qualitatively different data.
The problems with mobility are the same as those we saw online with smartphones:
That you pay with your privacy without you realizing it.
Because the car knows exactly what you're doing, where you're going,
and all modern cars will have at least 15 cameras,
and even if you only have access to 1% of all cars, you know what's happening around the world.
If data is worth more than the cost of driving in the car,
then you might get a free car. You just pay with your privacy,
just as you pay with your privacy for all the free services you get from Google.
When surveillance capitalism broke through in Silicon Valley - 2002, 2003 and 2004 -
it changed the bar for investment.
You now had Google making money from what I call the monitoring yield.
What venture capitalist would invest in a company that just makes an app?
When he can invest in a company that makes an app plus a monitoring dividend.
So what immediately happened was that investments began to flow towards those who made the most money.
And the increased earnings came from the monitoring yield.
And this is now the structure that flows across the entire economy.
Why spend energy on the engineers, factories, science,
to make a car that runs without coal,
when we only need to sell the data coming from the vehicles,
and we have a monitoring yield,
and the investors come to us,
and gives us that kind of market capitalization,
as the leading surveillance capitalists have.
It's our new loan on life,
it is the way forward in the 20th century.
Monitoring data is valuable because everyone is demanding it.
That's why Google wants their products in the cars,
not to make money selling cars.
You can use the car as a Trojan to collect all the data.
We see it now ending the circle, back to the birthplace of mass production
in the Ford factories,
where Ford Motors CEO says: we want market capitalization just like Facebook and Google.
How do we get it?
Instead of making a car that runs without coal, we reuse our cars as surveillance vehicles,
and then we stream data from the 100,000 people driving around in a Ford car.
We combine it with the data we have from Ford Credit,
where, as he says, we already know everything about you.
And these data sets us on par with the big surveillance capitalists,
and who wouldn't invest in Ford Motor in those circumstances?
The primary economy - what we perceive as the primary economy -
build a nice car, grow good food, build a house,
means zero and nothing
in this surveillance economy.
This started with Android.
When Google acquired the ability to make the Android phone,
many people at Google said,
it's great, now we have a phone just like Apple,
and we can sell a phone and get a high margin to sell that phone,
and that margin will give us profits and make us really rich.
But the wiser heads at Google prevailed.
Those who already understood surveillance capitalism prevailed.
And they said the opposite:
We want the phone and all accessories for the phone to be as cheap as possible.
If we can get the price down to 0, then it's even better.
We want everyone to have a phone.
Because the more they have a phone and the more time they spend on a phone,
the more data we get from them.
The greater the surplus of behavior flows into our supply chains.
So if we can give it away, we will give it away.
Google free mobile operating system Android
means Google has the keys to almost 90% of the world's smartphones.
To collect as much data as possible from all these mobile phones
Google experimented with network balloons
in those parts of the world where mobile internet is not available.
Facebook, which would not be left, flew network drones over emerging markets,
and offered free internet in combination with a Facebook app.
"... and connecting them presents one of the greatest opportunities for humanity today."
"Hi Mark. Why are you showing such great interest in India?"
"Answer honestly."
"Our mission is to give everyone in the world the power to share what is important to them and to connect with all people in the world."
With the possibility of US data robbery in mind, India politely declined the offer,
and managed without Zuckerberg's generosity.
In other parts of the world, Facebook's intentions are becoming more and more clear every day.
But we need whistleblowers.
Facebook would like to receive our data,
but are not prepared to share information about how the business works.
So here we have a document written by Facebook executives in Australia,
and what they told their business customers there,
was that we have so much data
about 6.6 million Australian young adults and teens.
As a result, we can predict mood swings,
we can predict when they feel stressed,
exhausted,
tense,
inferior,
scared.
All these kind of very personal feelings.
And we can alert you
at the exact moment,
where they are most likely to need self-confidence.
Let's say there is a young person who is considering a date this weekend,
and it's Thursday night now and their excitement is peaking,
and they need to boost their confidence.
If you send them an ad for a sexy black leather jacket,
send the ad right now. Offer them free delivery.
Say it will be delivered to their door before waking up the next morning.
Give them a discount coupon.
Then you sell the black leather jacket.
Do it now.
We can tell you when the exact time when their vulnerability peaks.
It is reality.
It takes place.
And if you don't believe me,
you only need to rotate a few degrees,
against something that happened in 2018.
And what is it?
It came from yet another whistleblower.
His name was Chris Wylie.
And he told us about Cambridge Analytica.
Chris Wylie, a former employee of the British company Cambridge Analytica,
sounded alarmed at the methods used by this political marketing company.
Cambridge Analytica used Facebook data from more than $ 18 million Americans,
to analyze the best way to tamper with American voters.
One of the things Chris Wylie said,
when he brought the story with The Guardian in 2018,
was that we knew so much
about so many individuals,
that we could understand their inner demons,
and we could figure out how to target their demons,
how to address their fears,
how to target their anger,
how to target their paranoia.
And with this targeting, we could trigger those feelings.
And by triggering those feelings, we were able to manipulate them into clicking a website,
join a group,
tell them what to read,
tell them what kind of people to hang out with,
even telling them who to vote for.
It's no different from Facebook at all
tried to make out against the innocent young people in Australia and New Zealand.
To target their inner demons
- the same mechanisms, the same methods -
only turned a few degrees from commercial to political results.
Cambridge Analytica was nothing but a parasite on a huge host,
and that host is surveillance capitalism.
"Hi, Ella. I hope you find yourself right.
You know how I always say: Everything you need you already have inside you. "
"The truth is..."
"... that's not all you can do for yourself."
"We all need other people to reach our goals."
"Ask yourself..."
"... who you do it with."
"Hi every one...
Welcome to F8.
Today we need to talk about building a privacy-oriented social platform.
That's why I believe,
that the future is private.
So is everything all right, Professor Zuboff?
In June 2019,
just a few months after the big announcement that the future is private,
there was a very interesting trial,
brought before a California judge,
and this lawsuit was a mass trial,
brought by individuals who demanded to Facebook
gave them the data that Facebook had made available
for Cambridge Analytica,
to find out if they had been targeted and tampered with by Cambridge Analytica.
And that had to be decided by a California court.
Facebook's attorneys leading the case,
stood up in front of the judge and said,
that any Facebook user,
who use the platform and typically share information
with 100 or more people in their network
- once you've done it -
then you cannot have an expectation of privacy,
that allows you to assert any right of privacy,
in a lawsuit like this, or in some other privacy-oriented lawsuit.
So here we have again the public operation and the shadow operation.
What happens behind the blanket is that a lawyer stands in front of a judge and says
that no Facebook users can have any legitimate expectation of privacy.
"This is the next chapter for our services."
Do you use any Google products?
No.
How do you survive?
Pretty good.
If there is a reason,
where I absolutely have a need to use Google,
I go through different layers of encryption and change location settings,
before I go to Google Search.
For principle reasons.
There is a way to avoid the ubiquitous eye of Google and Facebook.
You can use a VPN and send all your data through a secure server in another country.
But Big Tech doesn't lose the night's sleep over individuals who stand up against the surveillance capitalists.
I don't want anyone to think that if they fail to use Google Search, they will fight the battle,
because it is a collective problem that requires collective action.
With us Amish, we depend on public transport for all distances.
We travel locally on our slow way,
and I think the horse and the horse-drawn carriage make us slow
and contributes to the overall value we try to create and preserve,
and let's not get carried away.
A regular computer with security walls where you can't get to porn sites and the like ...
... with the shutdowns we have, it's totally shut down.
Can you go online with this computer?
No. Not at all.
It will not play live pictures or music or anything like that.
It is not a computer that is peeled apart.
It is a computer built from the ground up in this way.
Especially for you Amish?
Yes.
Want to show me your cell phone?
Yes. All you can do with it is call.
You can't send text messages or anything like that.
It's just a laptop.
So this is where it lies.
When I go home, I don't have it with me. It's right here. It's for business.
The technology is evolving so fast that it is difficult to handle.
We have to teach what the moral impact is,
and involve us so that each individual can make better choices on their own.
We use technology as long as we use it,
and we do not reach where technology is using us,
and control us.
That is what is the bottom line.
It's strange about these people,
as you might say living in the past,
maybe they live in the future.
It's only a moment ago
we did not have many of these tools.
We did fine.
We lived rich and whole lives.
We had close connections
with friends and family.
That said,
then I will acknowledge,
that there are many things that digital brings to our lives,
and we deserve to have it all,
but we deserve to have it, without having to pay the price of surveillance capitalism.
Right now we are in a classic Faustian bargain.
21st century citizens should not have to make the choice,
between either being "analog" or
live in a world where our self-determination and privacy are destroyed,
for the sake of market logic.
That is unacceptable.
And we should not be naive either.
If at some point you get the wrong people in the government,
and they look over their shoulders at the abundant control options
as these new systems present,
then comes a time when - even in the West, even in our democratic society -
our governments are tempted to annex these opportunities
and use them over and against us.
Let's not be naive about that.
When we decide to oppose surveillance capitalism,
right now while living in the market dynamics,
we also preserve our democratic future
and that kind of control and balancing
that we need in the future in an information civilization,
if we are to maintain freedom and democracy for another generation.
The EU already has legislation,
which it regularly uses to smash American tech companies.
Google was fined several billion dollars for abusing their market monopoly.
In theory, European citizens are protected from data theft by the competition rules and the GDPR (Data Protection Regulation).
Do you think EU data protection legislation is a step in the right direction and is it sufficient?
We have privacy laws, and GDPR is the forefront of our privacy laws,
and we have antitrust laws.
The thing is,
however important the laws are,
we still need more.
Because surveillance capitalism has no precedent.
So we are going to need legislation and regulations that directly correspond
these new and unique companies.
GDPR mentions data ownership,
data availability and data portability.
These are very important things,
if the only data we are talking about is data in the public operation.
The data we have provided to the company.
But as we have seen,
is most of the data used,
which are fed into the factory,
used to make the predictions,
is data that we have not provided.
Or if we've given them to us, then we don't even know.
Because that data comes from our exclamation point, from the walk in the park,
from capturing the cadence and the sound of our voices.
All richly predictive signals.
No matter how much ownership, availability or portability we claim, most data is only found in the shadow operation.
And the shadow operation never shows up for us.
We never get access to that data.
They claim ownership over the data.
They took them from our lives,
they took them from our private experiences without our permission,
the data analyzed,
they turned it into products, sold them, and took the profits.
Illegal profit.
Because they took it from the beginning without asking, without our knowledge,
- remember -
by circumventing our consciousness.
Does the EU have a chance against the giants of surveillance capitalism?
These 20 years have been the wedding night of surveillance capitalism,
because they have had 20 years without the law impeding obstacles.
Without the law having put obstacles in the way. Why?
The main reason is that they do things that have never been done before.
So there are no laws that forbid it.
Like factories like employed children,
in a mass-making business,
there had never been anything like it,
and there were no laws prohibiting it,
and it took our community a while before they woke up.
We resisted the mining industry and their acts of violence,
the companies that we know from "The Gilded Age".
The companies that we turned to, us whose leaders we called robber barons.
They were not called that in their time.
Back then, they were worshiped as wealthy gods, geniuses who knew how to make use of the power of machines and capital.
If we had tried to stop it, to restrict it, to make it illegal,
in each of those 20 years, and we had failed completely,
then maybe I would support my head and think "it's all bad,"
but that's not it at all,
we haven't tried to stop it at all yet.
Surveillance capitalism is 20 years old.
Democracy is hundreds of years old.
I put my money on democracy.